this is your shiny gold shop two coats
guaranteed shovel your way out what's up
everybody it's Ryan and Greg and we're
back to talk about Twin Peaks the return
episode five but first make sure to
subscribe to gain spot universe so you
can stay up-to-date with all of our
coverage including movies TV anime
comics and wrestling this week we're
going to go over the main plot lines
followed by some Easter eggs and
theories then we're going to get to your
comments now grab your gold [ __ ] digging
shovel because we've got a lot to cover
Wow hey guys just a little fYI in the
background they are jackhammering above
us and also to the side of us so you're
gonna probably hear a little bit of it
at the depth throughout the whole video
we're sorry about that alright let's get
started with Dale Cooper mr. jackpot
dougie Cooper dougie Jones you know who
we're talking about the coffee from last
week that many people thought may be
equal turn dougie Dale Cooper will spark
something
not exactly it definitely seems like the
coffee had an effect and that there are
other triggers that are also still
having effect somebody mentioned the
word agent and that sort of caught his
head too yep but we're definitely he's
not he's not getting pulled out of it
anytime soon I really wanted him to come
out of it there at the last the last
fire that I think we all did and there
were also a lot of comments last week
saying the exact same thing it's like
it's it's driving people crazy that Dale
is still like like this it reminds me of
Deadwood season two like the first four
or five episodes Al Swearengen is
bedridden and it's just reliving you
crazy as a pro knows - or the season
finale the first part they have set a
Tony in a coma right it's that classic
drive you insane with the main character
being completely out of the action but
in any case we see him at work he's
assured in by like an intern who gets
him on the elevator and gets him some
coffee and says damn good Joe there's
definitely something there but it wasn't
enough
hahaha damn good Joe hi doggie
damn Joe after that we get him into a
sort of a conference meeting and he sits
down there's a hilarious moment where
the person who's coffee he's been
drinking gets the but was it the green
tea green tea latte and finds out that
he loves it it's adorable and like just
some classic Lynch moment then we get
into one of the other business partners
played by Tom Sizemore talking about a
current contract and during that talk
dougie Dale mr. Jack pots seems like a
flash of green light on him and
recognizes that he's lying he's lying
now I'm starting to wonder if these
flashes the green light and we saw like
a little portal to the Red Room I wonder
if it's actually something that has to
do a subconscious with Dale in there
that's what I was starting to wonder too
like I really felt like at the casino it
seemed like there was help coming from
the lodge and this almost seemed more
like it was representing his ability to
recognize things so maybe we were wrong
about last time maybe we were wrong last
time about my just helping him or that
exactly that scene with Sizemore I
thought he was got a punch I'm straight
in the face it was pretty intense so we
get a little bit more of Dougie's day
out of the way he has trouble using an
elevator and at the end of the workday
he finds himself outside with the statue
and before we say anything about that
part I think that's something worth
noting is that when he's dropping off at
work at the beginning of the day Janey
says are you having one of your episodes
again so it kind of gives a little bit
justification for everybody at the
office not really thinking it was that
weird that he was acting the way he was
now in Episode five there's finally a
lot of plot points that really tied
dougie to mr. C Bob Cooper and one of
them is something that I kind of feel
like we were wrong about last week yeah
which was that we really dismissed those
hit men that were going after dougie as
just the you know whoever he owed money
to going after him a big deal but in
this episode we see that they're
actually tied to a higher purpose we see
this with the Hitman actually on the
phone with their supervisor and she
looks very disturbing but they can't
find dougie she's positively freaked
death yes you can tell when she takes
out that blackberry that she does not
want to take out that black bear yeah
and she uses it to dial argent which
could be Argentina and we think it's
probably filled Geoffrey she's talking
to yeah that device that like receives
the transmission in the place that we
don't yet know where it is
Lille a black box later find out it's
Argentina but that looks like sort of
the same tech that Bob Cooper was using
to communicate with who he thought was
Phillip Jeffries yes in a previous
episode and we see that box again turned
to a little silver ball after Bob Cooper
gets on the phone and tells it the cow
jumped over the moon so there's
definitely a lot of weird stuff with
that scene that's worth looking at right
yeah so there's the silver ball we think
that that's a silver ball it does maybe
resemble a little bit this sort of shape
we've seen with like the head on the
tree and what dougie became these more
images there's also a box card in the
previous episode where he shows like you
know this weird creature on the front
also argent which was typed into the
BlackBerry me and silver yes so there's
maybe something hmm no I don't think
I'll call mr. strawberry
I don't think he's taking calls I know I
think for starters and I know we were
wrong about this in the past but I think
mr. strawberry is a red herring I think
that that's an example of Bob knowing
how to manipulate the people that have
incarcerated him I don't think there's a
plot point there yeah there's a couple
other things going on there
he dials a bunch of numbers in I think
basically what we're seeing here is Bob
knows how to hack the Justice
Department's computers through a bone
somehow and as we pointed out that leads
to the shrinking of the box that may
belong to Phillip Jeffries but there's
some other things that go into there's a
bunch of screens that normally would
show the prison and they display
different things we have one that's a
Cooking Channel yeah and I think again
it's another distraction mm-hmm and but
you also got the cobbler there she
seemed right and shoes are playing a big
theme in this I've always played a big
theme in series but a big theme in this
episode too
yes the last connection that we got
between dougie and Bob Cooper was the
ring found in the body at Ruth
Davenport's apartment the ring is
definitely belonging to dougie Jones now
through a few other clues this means
that I have to apologize to Greg because
last week I said one of his theories
sounded a little crazy okay I'm not the
only one to make that theory though
there's quite a few out there who also
need this theory it's just now starting
to build up and it looks like it might
be real that that body in fact is major
bricks one thing that stopped me from
pretty much confirming that body to be
major Briggs though it was Ernie Hudson
saying that these prints have come out
16 times before 16 hits in what 25 years
right 16 times in 25 years major Briggs
as fingerprints have come up and they
have never been positive so there's
still a chance that you're crazy maybe
there's a bunch of bricks doppelgangers
out there Oh oh my that's going to give
me a headache okay now I've got some
Easter eggs and theories moving forward
and you spotted a whole bunch of stuff
in this episode that even
I didn't notice so what do you got well
first you got that big giant ass poster
that's behind
Doug's boss bushnell battling bud
Mullins now that might be a reference to
Bushnell Keeler who is a mentor to David
Lynch he's actually in one of his very
first little short film Home Videos he
did called sailing with Bushnell Keeler
I thought that was pretty cool so it's a
poster for a fabricated boxer who is
actually the actor Don Burton's in front
of his own monster now when she's
real-life son Riley is also there as
well he's playing with the band trouble
at the Roadhouse
I was interesting too there's like a
departure from ending on the music
instead we get it about 15 minutes
earlier yeah I'm really glad I didn't
hit pause or stop or anything right
there and get up and do something
there's another classic sort of like
film TV prop that appears in this
episode as well the Morley cigarettes
yeah now that's in everything you can
probably find it in Breaking Bad married
with children it's everywhere but
nowadays we really reference that a lot
to you x-files cancer man mm-hmm
okay there's one more Easter egg sort of
this week that I'm not totally on board
with but why don't you take it away it's
a stretch but this one we're gonna take
this one straight from reddit give
credit to the rest the horn for coming
up with this one it is that statue
people think it's David Bowie I mean I
can see it but I don't know if this
really has anything to do with the plot
just yet but I don't know what do you
guys think in the comments section below
this makes any sense and where does it
go from here why is it David Bowie then
there is just a little quick Easter Egg
is a little reference to I mean you
could make the case that you know agent
Jeffries is somebody that Cooper was in
contact with he's got a fixation on the
shoes there's something there but it
could just be a fixation on shoes I
think
the sheep's yeah anything we've also got
some new threads plotlines starting up
this week beginning with the character
Stephen who has a very bad job interview
you'd never get hired here and I would
never recommend you for any work any
place now you can get up and get your
ass out of here so right off the top
were introduced to this character Steven
who's pretty much a loser right that
wasn't even actually a job interview the
guy just brought him in to tell him how
terrible his resume was and how he
wasn't hiring material and he told me
get out knows it now we come back to
them later when we see Norma for the
first time a returning character from
the original Twin Peaks and he is
accompanied by Becky who is Shelley's
daughter if you don't help her now she's
gonna get a lot harder to help her later
she drops off some supplies for the R&R
diner which we also have seen finally
for the first time in this new series
then she hits Shelley up for some money
and heads out to the car where Steven is
we're doing Shelley and Bobbie all over
again and there's also some credence of
that because actually the first thing
that Bobby Briggs talked about when he
returned to the series was how there was
an overdose at the high school that had
something to do with possibly Chinese
designer drugs and we see some drug use
in the scene yeah it could be coke but
it could be also whatever this designer
drug is as well now the big thing about
Becky is she might be a Laura Palmer
remix here I'm not sure about that
Jessie I do you think she's gonna be
hitting the axe sometime soon
I think there actually might be some
credence to that theory because if you
look at some of the things we've already
seen in the series which we talked about
before echo the original series so you
know we see that there's like that
Hastings is maybe another Leland Palmer
well it makes just as much sense that
there would be another Laura ball yeah I
don't know I think it's a red herring
that shot of her like with our eyes
closed looking up and I thought there
was gonna be a car accident and right
then in there I was also expecting a car
accident a lot of people think she's
totes mcgoats but I don't know I think
she's gonna be alive for a little longer
all right I will fall on favor for this
theory for once now while there wasn't
very much going on with the hawk Lucy
and II Truman plotline the search for
the missing thing that the log lady told
us about we did get introduced to one
more new character at the Roadhouse
where he needs to a real scumbag here at
the very end we see him first
interact with somebody that we've seen
as part of Truman's death at the police
department it's looking more likely -
he's a crooked cop at this point and
that could tie very much into the drug
plotline as well yes
[Music]
now the big thing about this new
character is in the credits you can see
that the name is Richard horn oh he is a
horn now he could easily be the son of
Ben or Jerry horn we know that they get
around eight and bring that up in the
first episode right but there's also the
possibility that he's the son of Audrey
one which I think is much more likely
okay so to be fair though we don't know
if she's still alive we haven't seen her
in this corporeal world she may be in
the black lodge white lodge but we do
know that sherilyn fenn is going to
appear in the series actually let me cut
in here if you read the secret history
of Twin Peaks she is very much alive
that's all we know for now she survived
the explosion at the season finale not
only is Audrey probably his mom I think
that his dad is Bob Cooper oh yes oh
that's pretty good
yes I like that at some point in the
last like you know 25 years he knocked
up Audrey left her which is why he still
has the name Richard Horne and it's not
anything different and that does bring
up one other thing at the very very very
beginning of the series the giant says
Richard and Linda two birds one stone
and this is our first Richard we still
don't have a Linda yet not yet but I
became a wind is going to show up very
soon yeah okay now we'd like to get to
some of your comments from the last
couple of videos and there's a lot of
good things that people said and one of
the things that I thought was sort of
consistent in the comments that I really
like about David Lynch fans and people
watching the series is sort of like
talking about how to watch it how to
interpret it and how to read it and
there's some really good comments in
here going back to the scene in Cole's
office where he's talking on the red
phone with the atomic bomb the war
inator pointed out that there is also a
Franz Kafka picture in the background
during that scene and it's actually
fairly well documented
that David Lynch is a is heavily
influenced by Franco I can't believe I
missed that background that's why I was
looking at the whole thing I didn't call
the singing license one of those things
were like you see a theory but you're
like thank you comment section also
there's something to be said for how to
even read like the twin peak series and
Lynch things so something that Sam Muir
said was Lynch is a genius filmmaker and
I love this new series already Twin
Peaks fire walk with me and the missing
pieces is a must watch for understanding
what's happening that's really an
excellent tip it's also true that you
should probably be checking out mark
Frost's book and both of those things
seem to have a lot more influence on
this than even the second season of the
show
yeah they reference that book a lot more
than anything a second season really I'd
also like to add that Mulholland Drive
seems to be playing a role we've seen
what maybe recurring characters from
that universe as well so definitely when
you have some downtime between episodes
dig into those with 25 years between the
second season and the third season
there's been some sadness to some we are
lucky enough to have had already shot
scenes for the show but others didn't
make it that includes David Bowie Don
Davis Frank Silva and there were a lot
of people in the comments expressing
grief about that but another thing that
was sort of going on in the comments was
questions around like who could play
those characters moving forward could we
recast some of those characters if need
be and there were actually some really
cool ideas one of those happens to be
David Bowie's character Philip Jeffries
who has so far a major plot line going
on in the story so we're wondering if
they're going to involve this character
in any way other than maybe just having
him in a computer or just through
voiceover anything like that
Ashford word says Tilda Swinton could
easily play him I love that idea
I think Tilda Swinton would be perfect
to fill in for Bowie that would be great
I hope they do it and my favorite
comment goes out to Jax Teru the Battle
of Dale Cooper has begun in the good the
bad and the Dougy
I love that it's really good okay we've
talked on some of the previous videos
about lynched
and the way he does things and there's
definitely like these conspicuously slow
scenes with long beats between dialogue
moments and all I heard from multiple
people what's going on with dr. Jacoby
that gold spraying painting shovel scene
takes forever in a previous episode now
we finally get the payoff shovel you're
way out of the [ __ ] dr. Jacoby has
become like an online YouTube conspiracy
theorist it's perfect
right it totally makes sense really
character yeah it's easy to read these
scenes as kind of like flipping us the
bird especially people like us that are
trying to like focus I for everybody and
take things apart but it's also maybe
lunch having fun at our expense there's
a big five fingers on a middle finger
going on here maybe there's also a
little bit more to that we see Jerry and
we see the return of Nadine Nadine is
classically crazy this totally falls in
line with Jerry an ad to be watching the
show it's definitely consistent yes
Nadine could be just glued to it whereas
Jerry is maybe just a little bit more of
aloof smoking his pot out in the woods
but I love that it's gold [ __ ] digging
shovels only $29.99 plus shipping
except no substitute get snores one last
thing is I just want to point out that
this the theme we're getting in this
episode was a lot of curiosity killed
the cat you're playing with fire
by with a couple characters first off we
got this girl at the bar he talks to
Richard horn and if the temptation
brings her over only the sealy this is
not a good idea this is this is a really
bad idea to go over this guy and then we
get it again with the little kid who
will call one for now got the one on his
shirt yeah who goes over and you know
temptation you want to play what see
what's going on over there only two you
know should have done that almost got
blown up
yes okay those are our theories and
ideas around episode 5 of Twin Peaks the
return let us know what you think in the
comments below and please subscribe and
make sure to keep it here to GameSpot
universe later guys till next week